OK.
So we don't have two things to do.
We need to somehow figure out how we can pull out all this validation logic outside of our orthodoxy
as vile.
Like I mentioned at this rate this file is going to be really hard to work with.
Very quickly other and we need to do is to figure out if we have any errors right here how to somehow
showed the original form and display those errors inside of that form.
Let's first take care of extracting some this validation logic out because that's definitely going to
make figuring everything else out inside of here a little bit easier once we don't have to scroll up
and down through this giant block of code to extract all the stuff I can create a new file inside of
my roots admin directory inside the admin directory I going to make a new file called validators not
J.S. so inside of here we're going to create all those different validators essentially just the validation
chains and then export them so they can be easily used or referenced from other files inside of our
project so inside a validator such as I'm going to define that check function or require it from the
Express validator library.
We know that our validator also requires the user's repo so I'm also going to add in users repo and
to get that I'm going to go up one directory to roots up one directory to my root folder and then into
repositories.
So up one up one repositories Whoops there we go inside of here I'll do a module that exports and I'm
going to export an object.
Now one thing that I want to point out here is if we go back to our Oct J.S. file and we take a look
at each these validation chains.
Notice how they do not require any input from anything else inside this file.
In other words there is no direct coupling between this little chain right here and any request object
or response object or anything like that.
So in theory we can really define this chain of method calls anywhere inside of our project and then
import the result of it.
And just like stick it in right there.
So let me show you what I mean.
I'm going to select this first validation chain around that email.
I'm going to cut it.
I'm going to take it back over to validators and I'm gonna add in a new key to this thing of require
email and then I'm going to paste in my validator like so so now I have the result of this entire validation
chain.
The end result of all of it is a function to be used as a middleware and I'm assigning the result of
all that to require email so now to make use of this entire validated chain back inside of that root
handler.
We were just working on I will go back over to Art J.S. I'm gonna go up to the top and underneath our
template require statements.
I'm going to require in and d structure off at the same time that object specifically the require email
property.
It's like a d structure require email from same directory because we're currently inside of.
Off I want to get that validators file so now require e-mail.
Right.
Here is the exact same thing that we were working with just a second ago this entire big validation
chain or I should say the result of that big validation chain.
Now I can just take that variable right there that single variable and stick it in where I previously
had the giant validation chain so I could put it right there as the first argument or the first element
side that array require email and that's pretty much it.
Now we're going to repeat that process for these two other validation chains as well.
I'm going to take check password I'm going to cut it.
I'll go over to validators she's going to add in a new key value pair to this thing.
So I'll say require a password paste in that entire check for password go back to author James at the
top.
I'm going to d structure require a password and then I'll stick.
Require a password in as the second element and I will repeat that one that's time for password confirmation.
So I'll cut all that n validators make sure I get a comma at the end of the last little block there
I'll put require password confirmation and then stick in that whole validation chain as well.
Say this go back over to off J.S. go to the top d structure off require a password confirmation.
And then finally stick that in to the third element.
Now we have everything essentially at the end the day exactly identical to how it was before all we've
done is moved the declaration of these different validators into this other file so over time if we
need any other validation statements or any other validation chains like the ones you put together right
here we will just continue to add them into this object with some appropriate names like require email
require a password require password confirmation and so on.
So it's going to keep adding them in over here and to the thing over time and we can easily reuse them
throughout the rest of our project as well.
So if there ever happens to be any other area where we need to require an email or anything like that
we could simply require in require email and then make use of it inside of some other root handler.
The other benefit is that inside of our off dot J.S. file everything inside of here is way more legible
now.
Now I can almost see the entire post request handler on like one screen of code whereas before that
was definitely not possible as at all.
As a matter of fact if I save this those three lines get condensed down to one and now this is way more
legible than what I had previously.
In addition the names of each of these validation attempts right here make it really clear about what
I'm trying to validate.
So I can at a glance take a look at this poster request handler for sign up and understand that.
OK this thing is going to have some email validation password validation and password confirmation validation
as well though this is definitely a good improvement.
We've moved allows code to some other file where it can be more easily reused in the future.
Now the last thing we have to figure out around all this validation stuff is how to take the result
of any errors that occurred during that validation attempt and show them on our original form.
So quite possible take care of that in just a moment.